Add TPU doc (#1113)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/reference/tpu.rst

.. _tpu:

Cloud TPU
================================

> SkyPilot supports running jobs on `Cloud TPU <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/intro-to-tpu>`_

Reviewer: Consider front loading snippets somewhere here. Example text:

tl;dr: Get a TPU Node with one command:
```
sky tpunode
sky tpunode --use-spot
sky tpunode --tpus tpu-v2-8
```
For TPU VMs, see below.

---

Should we ban the following?
```
» sky tpunode --tpus tpu-v3-32                                                                  1 ↵
I 08-23 09:46:02 resources.py:238] Missing runtime_version in accelerator_args, using default (2.5.0)
I 08-23 09:46:03 optimizer.py:605] == Optimizer ==
I 08-23 09:46:03 optimizer.py:628] Estimated cost: $32.5 / hour
I 08-23 09:46:03 optimizer.py:628]
I 08-23 09:46:03 optimizer.py:675] Considered resources (1 node):
I 08-23 09:46:03 optimizer.py:703] -----------------------------------------------------------
I 08-23 09:46:03 optimizer.py:703]  CLOUD   INSTANCE       ACCELERATORS   COST ($)   CHOSEN
I 08-23 09:46:03 optimizer.py:703] -----------------------------------------------------------
I 08-23 09:46:03 optimizer.py:703]  GCP     n1-highmem-8   tpu-v3-32:1    32.47         ✔
I 08-23 09:46:03 optimizer.py:703] -----------------------------------------------------------
I 08-23 09:46:03 optimizer.py:703]
Launching a new cluster 'sky-tpunode-zongheng'. Proceed? [Y/n]: n
Aborted!
```

Author: I hesitated a bit because GCP seems to suggest TPU VM as the default option and is retiring TPU Nodes. For example, you can't easily find TPU Node tutorial on their documentation. We may want to set TPU VM as default for our tpunode.

We do support `sky tpunode --tpus tpu-v3-32` now (because it's TPU Node), which Sehoon is currently using.

.. _tpu:

Cloud TPU
================================

> SkyPilot supports running jobs on `Cloud TPU <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/intro-to-tpu>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SkyPilot supports running jobs on Google's `Cloud TPU <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/intro-to-tpu>`_.
```

> which is Google's customized hardware for accelerating machine learning workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Two different TPU architectures are available on GCP:

- `TPU Nodes <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/system-architecture-tpu-vm#tpu-node>`_
- `TPU VMs <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/system-architecture-tpu-vm#tpu-vm>`_

> The way to interact with the two architectures can be different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both are supported by SkyPilot.  The two architectures differ as follows.
```

For TPU Nodes, a host VM communicates with the TPU host over gRPC.
For TPU VMs, you can SSH directly into a VM that is physically connected to the TPU device.
For more details please refer to GCP `documentation <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/system-architecture-tpu-vm#tpu-arch>`_.

> Getting TPU in one command

Reviewer: TPU -> a TPU node?

Author: I add a new option to launch TPU VM with `sky tpunode --tpu-vm` so now both are supported. I guess the current title is fine now?

--------------------------------

> Like :ref:`GPUs <interactive-nodes>`, SkyPilot provides a simple command to get an interactive TPU resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like :ref:`GPUs <interactive-nodes>`, SkyPilot provides a simple command to quickly get a  TPU node for development:
```

.. code-block:: bash

   sky tpunode                                # By default TPU v3-8 is used
   sky tpunode --use-spot                     # Preemptible TPUs
   sky tpunode --tpus tpu-v2-8                # Change TPU type to tpu-v2-8
   sky tpunode --instance-type n1-highmem-16  # Change the host VM type to n1-highmem-16

> After the command finished, you can SSH into the host VM and develop codes right away!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the command has finished, you will be dropped into the host VM and can start develop code right away!
```

Author: Fixed!

Below we demonstrate how to run MNIST training on both TPU Nodes and TPU VMs with SkyPilot YAML.

TPU Nodes
--------------------------------

To use TPU Node, a host CPU VM needs to be created together with a TPU node and configured correctly to connect with each other.
SkyPilot automates the above process with a simple interface:

.. code-block:: yaml

   resources:
      instance_type: n1-highmem-8
      accelerators: tpu-v2-8
      accelerator_args:
         runtime_version: 2.5.0 # TPU software version to be used.

The above YAML considers :code:`n1-highmem-8` as the host machine and :code:`tpu-v2-8` as the TPU node resource.
You may modify the host instance type or TPU type as you wish.

> To show more TPU accelerators, you may run the command :code:`sky show-gpus --all` or refer to GCP's `documentation <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/regions-zones>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To show more TPU accelerators, you may run the command :code:`sky show-gpus`.
```
(they need our canonical names)

Author: good point. fixed.

> Now, we show a complete YAML for running `mnist training <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/tutorials/mnist-2.x>`_ on TPU node with TensorFlow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we show a complete YAML for running `MNIST training <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/tutorials/mnist-2.x>`_ on TPU node with TensorFlow.
```

      export MODEL_DIR=${STORAGE_BUCKET}/mnist
      export DATA_DIR=${STORAGE_BUCKET}/data

      export PYTHONPATH=/home/gcpuser/sky_workdir/models

      python3 mnist_main.py \
         --tpu=${TPU_NAME} \
         --model_dir=${MODEL_DIR} \
         --data_dir=${DATA_DIR} \
         --train_epochs=10 \
         --distribution_strategy=tpu \
         --download

.. note::

   TPU node requires loading data from a GCS bucket, so we add a :code:`file_mounts` to create a new bucket.
   Check :ref:`SkyPilot Storage <sky-storage>` for more details.

With the above YAML, you should be able to launch the training job with :code:`sky launch`!

.. code-block:: console

   $ sky launch mnist-tpu-node.yaml -c mycluster
   ...
   (tpu_app pid=28961) Epoch 9/10
   (tpu_app pid=28961) 58/58 [==============================] - 1s 19ms/step - loss: 0.1181 - sparse_categorical_accuracy: 0.9646 - val_loss: 0.0921 - val_sparse_categorical_accuracy: 0.9719
   (tpu_app pid=28961) Epoch 10/10
   (tpu_app pid=28961) 58/58 [==============================] - 1s 20ms/step - loss: 0.1139 - sparse_categorical_accuracy: 0.9655 - val_loss: 0.0831 - val_sparse_categorical_accuracy: 0.9742
   ...

>    (tpu_app pid=28961) {'accuracy_top_1': 0.9741753339767456, 'eval_loss': 0.0831054300069809, 'loss': 0.11388632655143738, 'training_accuracy_top_1': 0.9654667377471924}

Reviewer: Here the task name is `tpu_app`, not the same as L58?

Author: Ah fixed. thanks for catching this.

Note that :code:`instance_type` is no longer needed because TPU VMs is a standalone host VM that physically connects to the TPU device.

Now we show an example of running `mnist training <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/run-calculation-jax#running_jax_code_on_a_tpu_vm>`_ on TPU VM with JAX.

.. code-block:: yaml

   name: mnist-tpu-vm

   resources:
      accelerators: tpu-v2-8
      accelerator_args:
         runtime_version: tpu-vm-base
         tpu_vm: True

   setup: |
      git clone https://github.com/google/flax.git

      conda activate flax
      if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
         echo 'conda env exists'
      else
         conda create -n flax python=3.8 -y
         conda activate flax
         # Make sure to install TPU related packages in a conda env to avoid package conflicts.
         pip install "jax[tpu]>=0.2.16" -f https://storage.googleapis.com/jax-releases/libtpu_releases.html
         pip install --upgrade clu
         pip install -e flax
      fi

   run: |
      conda activate flax
      cd flax/examples/mnist
      python3 main.py --workdir=/tmp/mnist \
      --config=configs/default.py \
      --config.learning_rate=0.05 \
      --config.num_epochs=10

> This time a GCS bucket is not required as the TPU VM is physically linked to the TPU device, which can access data directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A GCS bucket is not required as the TPU VM is physically linked to the TPU device, which can access data directly.
```
(reader may skip to this section directly, so "This time" may be confusing)

Author: Fixed!

> You are expected to see the below outputs when the job finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are expected to see the below outputs when the job finishes.
```

.. _tpu:

Cloud TPU
================================

SkyPilot supports running jobs on Google's `Cloud TPU <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/intro-to-tpu>`_.
Two different TPU architectures are available on GCP:

- `TPU Nodes <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/system-architecture-tpu-vm#tpu-node>`_
- `TPU VMs <https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/system-architecture-tpu-vm#tpu-vm>`_

> Both are supported by SkyPilot. The two architectures differ as follows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both are supported by SkyPilot.
The two architectures differ as follows.
```

Getting TPUs in one command
--------------------------------

Like :ref:`GPUs <interactive-nodes>`, SkyPilot provides a simple command to quickly get TPUs for development:

.. code-block:: bash

   sky tpunode                                # By default TPU v3-8 is used
   sky tpunode --use-spot                     # Preemptible TPUs
   sky tpunode --tpus tpu-v2-8                # Change TPU type to tpu-v2-8
   sky tpunode --instance-type n1-highmem-16  # Change the host VM type to n1-highmem-16
   sky tpunode --tpu-vm                       # Use TPU VM (instead of TPU Node)

After the command has finished, you will be dropped into the host VM and can start develop code right away!

Below we demonstrate how to run MNIST training on both TPU Nodes and TPU VMs with SkyPilot YAML.

TPU Nodes
--------------------------------

To use TPU Node, a host CPU VM needs to be created together with a TPU node and configured correctly to connect with each other.
SkyPilot automates the above process with a simple interface:

.. code-block:: yaml

   resources:
      instance_type: n1-highmem-8

>       accelerators: tpu-v2-8

Reviewer 2: Just curious: why are we using `tpu-v2-8` while our default TPU device is `tpu-v3-8`? Is there a particular reason for this?

Author: Great point. I thought about it and there are three reasons we might want to change our default tpunode to `v2-8`.
1. it's considerably harder to get `v3-8` than `v2-8`.  I've met many out-of-capacity issues (in all regions) when requesting a `v3-8` (occurred to me last night and this morning). It can be a sad first impression if that happens to first-time users.
2. `v2-8` is $4.5/hr vs `v3-8` $8/hr. for development/demo purpose we want to use cheaper resources
3. No code compatibility issue. Almost all codes work on both `v2-8` and `v3-8`. except the latter has larger memory.

WDYT? @WoosukKwon @concretevitamin

Reviewer: Sgtm. (v2-8 may be hard to get as well, however; we can talk offline.)

Reviewer 2: @infwinston If that's the case, I think changing the default tpu to `v2-8` would be fine. Either choice works for TRC users as TRC offers 5 TPU-v3 devices and 5 TPU-v2 devices.

Author: Sounds good I just updated it.

   # Task name (optional), used for display purposes.
   name: mnist-tpu-node

   resources:
      accelerators: tpu-v2-8
      accelerator_args:
         runtime_version: 2.5.0 # TPU software version to be used.

   # TPU node requires loading data from a GCS bucket.
   file_mounts:
      /dataset:
         name: mnist-tpu-node
         store: gcs
         mode: MOUNT

   # The setup command.  Will be run under the working directory.
   setup: |
      git clone https://github.com/tensorflow/models.git

      conda activate mnist
      if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
         echo 'conda env exists'
      else
         conda create -n mnist python=3.8 -y
         conda activate mnist
         pip install tensorflow==2.5.0 tensorflow-datasets tensorflow-model-optimization cloud-tpu-client
      fi

   # The command to run.  Will be run under the working directory.
   run: |
      conda activate mnist
      cd models/official/legacy/image_classification/

      export STORAGE_BUCKET=gs://mnist-tpu-node
      export MODEL_DIR=${STORAGE_BUCKET}/mnist
      export DATA_DIR=${STORAGE_BUCKET}/data

      export PYTHONPATH=/home/gcpuser/sky_workdir/models

      python3 mnist_main.py \

>          --tpu=${TPU_NAME} \

Reviewer: +1, deserve a "note" tip box.
